---
author: lucacorbucci
title: ""
date: 2024-08-10
description:
math: true
draft: true
---

Some time ago in the [Superhero Valley Discord server] one of our users asked if going to tech conferences could be helpful for a student and what could be the conferences to attend. I answered the question with my opinion on this topic and then I thought it could be a good idea to write a post about it.


## My fist tech event 

My history with tech event started more than 15 years ago (yeah, I feel old while thinking about this). It was 2008 when my mother told me that she had seen an advertisement about an event called "Linux Day" organized by a local community called Tulug. At that time I did not even know what Linux was but I was already extremely attracted by computers. I shared this event with a classmate and we decided to go together. I still remember that day, it was a saturday afternoon and after school we went to the Linux Day. 
As it happens in most of the tech events we had the opportunity to attend some talks but most, importantly, we received as a 'gift' some CDs with linux distribution and a lot of stickers. I still have those CDs and stickers in a box in my room. That day I discovered a new world and I started to be more and more interested in computers and technology. The chat I had with the organizers was so interesting for a 13yo child and watching people working with linux distributions with a lot of passion was something that I will never forget. I have to admit that at that time, I was particularly attracted by the effects that all of the organizers were able to have on their PC with linux. This was probably the reason why that day I decided that I had to try Linux.

Unfortunately, as far as I know, the Linux Day was organized only for a few times in my city and I was only able to attend it two times. Therefore, these two events were the only tech events that I attended until the beginning of the University, more than 5 years later.

## Attending the events from the last row

In 2014 I started my CS degree in Pisa. Just after a few months, in May 2015, some people organized a watch party for the Google I/O. Since I was used to watch this kind of events alone at home found this a nice thing and I decided to attend the event with some of my friends. I don't remember too much of that day except for the fact that a room with ~150 seats was almost full of people interested in the event. That one was the first event of the [GDP Pisa](). Starting from that day, for the following 4 years, I attended almost all of the events organized by this community and a few other events organized by another local community called [Gulp]().
The biggest mistake I made while taking part into these events was to attend them 'from the last row'. I was interested in the talks but I used to avoid as much as I can the networking part. I was not used to take part into the beer party after the events or to talk with people that I did not know. My biggest mistake was to think that the people that were organizing these event were too 'important' and distant from me that I could not have the competences of spending time with them in front of a beer after the event.

## The Erasmus

The turning point in my experience with tech meetup was the Erasmus. I moved to Munich to spent a semester abroad in October 2019. My main goal was to improve my english that was terrible at that point. Despite following lectures in english and spending time with other students, I felt that this was not enough and that I was not challenging myself enough to improve my english. 
By chance I found an advertisement of an event organised by the [DSC Munich]() and I decided to attend it. It was only the first of dozens of events that I attended in Munich during the 5 months I was there. A key event was when I started to attend the [Flutter Munich]() meetup. They organized an Hackathon and then, I started to attend their meetup. It was mindblowing for me. I had never used Flutter before but I started to attend all the events and to talk with all the other attendant. I think I never expressed enough my gratitude to the organizers of the Flutter Munich meetup. It was really important for me and in the next section I'll explain why.

## Changing perspective

After attending the Flutter meetups I started to learn Flutter and to work with it. I remember that when I was close to the end of my Erasmus, in one of the last meetup I attended, I asked the organizers for some tips on how to organize a Flutter Meetup when back in Pisa. They gave me some suggestions and then I went back to Italy with the idea that I wanted to organize a Flutter Meetup in Pisa. It was the end of February 2020. I guess you all know what happened in March.

I have never organized a Flutter Meetup in Pisa but after just a few months my friends and I started something bigger. Thanks to a series of lucky event we had the opportunity to interact with a Googler that proposed us to gather a group of students interested in preparing for tech interviews all together. That was the start of [Superhero Valley](). Superhero Valley's goal is to fill the gap between the Italian universities and the Big Tech Companies. Initially, we decided to organize some talks to give awareness of the opportunities offered by Big Tech companies. At the same time we started to do [Leetcode]() exercises together. In just a few months we went from a local community opened only for the Computer Science master students of Pisa University to an online community with more than 1000 members coming from all around Italy. The growth of Superhero Valley continued during the next years and today we have more than 2200 members in our Discord server. Our activities also changed during time, we introduced a new mentorship program that allowed us to pair a mentor with or more mentees that could guide them in their professional growth. We did our best to track the results of the community measuring the number of 'active' members (mentee, people that joined the exercise group) that received an offer for an internship or for a full time in Big tech. We have more than 60 people that received an offer.


In 2022 [Antonio]() proposed to launch a local startup in Pisa thought for computer scientist and tech entusiast. We started this community in July 2022. Our first event was a big success. After that one we organized a lot of other events in Pisa and we even had the opportunity to host meetups with international speakers. Organizing local meetups was something new to me. My previous organization experience was with online meetups. Organizing an hosting a local meetup is something completely different and I liked it a lot from the first time. The biggest difference that pushes me to continue organizing in presence meetup is mainly what happens after the event: the pizza (or beery) party. During the after party you have the opportunity to talk with a lot of interesting people and this is something that you usually cannot do when organizing online event.


## Giving back something to the community



## Conclusions and suggestions 

